Welcome to JW Broadcasting.
In this month's program, we'll learn from past examples
and look ahead to our wonderful hope for the future.
Here are some highlights.
We can allow trials to rob us of our joy.
But in this dramatization, we'll see how a family
can still rejoice in the hope after a natural disaster.
A visit to Bethel has started many young ones
on the path to spiritual goals.
We'll tour Bethel with these young ones
and hear how they felt about their visit.
And we'll enjoy previews of the spiritual program
that's been prepared for us when we attend the 2016
Remain Loyal to Jehovah Convention.
This is the April 2016 edition
of JW Broadcasting.
The theme of this program is look back to learn,
look ahead to live.
It's based on Isaiah, chapter 30, verse 21,
which was written about 700 years before Christ.
The question is, how might we apply Isaiah 30-21
to Jehovah's people today?
The text reads,
and your own ears will hear a word behind you,
saying, this is the way.
Walk in it, in case you should go to the right,
or in case you should go to the left.
This scripture tells us that Jehovah's word
comes from behind his people,
issuing directions on the right way to walk.
When we turn to God's word for guidance,
we are reading words that were recorded thousands of years ago,
coming from behind us as it were in the stream of time.
This ties in nicely with Paul's words at Romans 15-4.
For all the things that were written beforehand
were written for our instruction.
There are many things that we can learn
by looking back at Bible characters,
examining their attitude, conduct,
and quality of faith can help us to make wise decisions
and to avoid pitfalls.
Also, we need to appreciate that experience
is not always the best teacher.
Some people go through life only learning lessons
after making one painful mistake after another.
It is far better to learn from examples of the past.
Looking back to our first human parents,
we see clearly the importance of obeying Jehovah.
For hundreds of years, Adam and Eve
must have looked back to the life they had in the Garden of Eden
before they sinned, but they felt no joy in doing so.
As they grew older and more decrepit,
they must have been filled with sadness and bitterness,
and there may have been many exchanges of unkind words.
Yes, they looked back at what they lost,
but it did not benefit them for they were created perfect
and were willfully disobedient to God.
Noah, who was born about 126 years after Adam died,
would have known of Adam's disobedience and its consequences.
Noah looked back and benefited from that knowledge.
He obeyed Jehovah and fixed his eyes on the unseen future,
the foretold earth-wide flood.
Also, he kept busy constructing an ark
and preaching to the people of his day.
It is only reasonable to believe that Noah's three sons
cooperated fully with him and building the ark.
But what about the wives of Noah's sons?
There is no mention of their families in Scripture.
The wives of Noah's sons must have been strong in faith,
determined to stick with their husbands and with God's servant Noah,
even though none of their family members went into the ark for survival.
The wives of Noah's sons provide an example for serious thought.
A few hundred years after the flood,
Abraham and Sarah left the city of Ur to serve Jehovah.
Wherever he designated, they looked ahead
and kept their eyes fixed on the promises of God.
The Apostle Paul indicates that Abraham and Sarah did not dwell
on what they left behind.
Paul makes that point in Hebrews 1115
and what a good lesson it is for us.
Hebrews 11 and verse 15 reads,
and yet if they had kept remembering the place
from which they had departed,
they would have had opportunity to return.
Like Abraham and Sarah,
we want to keep our attention fixed,
not on the things that we have left behind,
but rather on serving Jehovah
and on His promises for the future.
Lot was a contemporary of Abraham,
and there are vital lessons we can learn from the account about Lot's wife.
Genesis 1912 and 13 tell us not only that Sodom would be destroyed,
but also that Lot and His people in the city should flee immediately.
Then verse 17 says that as soon as the angels had brought Lot and His family
to the outskirts of Sodom,
they were told,
escape for your life,
do not look behind you,
and do not stand still in any part of the district,
escape to the mountainous region so that you may not be swept away.
After fleeing Sodom,
Lot's wife disobeyed God by looking back.
What may have been involved in her looking back?
There is nothing to indicate that she in any way approved of the immorality of Sodom,
but was her attachment to her home
and the material things she had there stronger than her love for God?
Whatever her reason,
what Jesus said at Luke chapter 17,
verses 31 and 32,
emphasizes the importance of obedience and urgency.
He said,
Luke 17, 31,
on that day
let the person who is on the house top
but whose belongings are in the house
not come down to pick these up,
and likewise the person out in the field must not return to the things behind.
And notice the way Jesus now ties together
urgency with obedience in verse 32.
Remember the wife of Lot.
Genesis 1926 says
that Lot's wife disobediently began to look back
and she became a pillar of salt.
Consider this thought provoking comment on pages 18 and 19 of the April 15, 1990 issue of the watchtower.
Now a further test of loyalty faced Lot and his daughters.
Was Lot's attachment to his deceased wife
or the girl's feelings for their dead mother stronger than their love for Jehovah
who had brought about this calamity?
Would they continue to obey God
even though someone very close to them proved disloyal to him?
With full trust in Jehovah
they did not look back.
Is there not a lesson in this account for us?
Moses looked to Jehovah for his blessings
and not to the position of privilege that he had in Egypt.
We want to be like Moses
and not fantasize about wealth, possessions, and fame.
And what about her?
What can we learn by examining his life?
No, this is not the bend her from the movie.
This her lived during the time period of Moses and Joshua.
Like many of Jehovah's people,
he played a supporting role in doing God's will.
We don't know much about him,
but what we do know shows that he was available
and willing to give support to Moses.
The account recorded at Exodus chapter 17 verses 8 through 13
occurred shortly after the Israelites left Egypt.
Exodus 17 8 through 13 reads us follows.
Then the Amalakites came and fought against Israel and refid him.
At this, Moses said to Joshua,
choose men for us and go out to fight against the Amalakites.
Tomorrow I will stand on top of the hill
with the rod of the true God in my hand.
Then Joshua did just as Moses told him
and he fought against the Amalakites.
And Moses, Aaron, and her went up to the top of the hill.
As long as Moses kept his hands lifted up,
the Israelites prevailed.
But as soon as he would let down his hands,
the Amalakites prevailed.
When the hands of Moses were heavy,
it took a stone and put it under him,
and he sat on it.
Then Aaron and her, one on each side,
supported his hands so that his hands remained steady until the sunset.
Thus Joshua defeated Amalek and his people with the sword.
The supporting role her played could be viewed as incidental
and not something extraordinary,
since many other men in Israel could have assisted Moses
by holding up one of his hands.
However, we can benefit from her's example.
Many brothers and sisters perform essential support work
to advance Kingdom interests.
But they are rarely, if ever, in the limelight,
nor are they well known by the Brotherhood.
But Jehovah knows who you are,
and he appreciates what you do.
Hebrews chapter 6, verse 10,
gives us this assurance.
Hebrews 6, 10 reads,
For God is not unrighteous so as to forget your work,
and the love you showed for his name,
by ministering and continuing to minister to the holy ones.
Oftentimes, we humans forget about the good that others do.
But Jehovah never forgets the good works of his faithful servants.
And now consider a man who was a gross wrongdoer,
guilty of the most heinous crimes and violations of God's laws.
He was King Manasseh.
Not only does the Bible account of his repentance amazes us,
but even more outstanding is the fact that Jehovah accepted his repentance
and showed him mercy.
How kind of Jehovah to allow this account to be in his word?
We look back to Manasseh,
who stands as an example of the great mercy that Jehovah extends
to all who genuinely repent of their wrongdoings
and make straight paths for their feet.
Manasseh's repentance must have been genuine,
for no one can deceive Jehovah.
And Manasseh's example should encourage those
who may think that they have gone too far astray to be forgiven
and receive Jehovah's tender mercies.
How much we appreciate the brochure?
Return to Jehovah.
It constitutes a loving invitation to take the necessary steps
to draw close to Jehovah and then remain in his love.
We draw close to the Father through Jesus Christ,
for He Himself declared at John 146,
no one comes to the Father except through Me.
Jesus invites us to learn from Him.
In the 2015 Convention Video Drama,
for a certainty God made Him Lord and Christ,
we learn much about Jesus' love for people
and His affection for His disciples.
Unforgettable and heartwarming was the scene of Jesus
warmly embracing each disciple before ascending to heaven.
Did Jesus actually do that?
I don't know.
But it's only reasonable to believe that He would show
such affection to His loyal disciples.
After all, according to John 21, 25,
Jesus did many things that are not recorded in the Scriptures.
And Jesus has also proved to be faithful to His promise,
to be with His disciples to the end of the system of things.
Do we not see evidence of that today?
The Apostle Peter was someone that most of us can relate to.
After Jesus' resurrection,
Peter became a zealous and fearless preacher of the good news.
He did not look back on His mistakes
and continue beating Himself for denying Jesus three times.
He did not give up because Jesus called Him Satan.
He did not quit and run away feeling sorry for Himself.
Nor did He quit when Paul reprimanded Him in front of many disciples.
Peter was a humble man who loved Jehovah.
There is much we can learn by looking back on Peter's life.
Never quit or give up in the race for life.
When we are disciplined, we want to imitate Peter
and make the needed changes.
We put our full trust in Jesus' ransom sacrifice
that does indeed cleanse us from inherited sin and from our own mistakes.
We must not allow ourselves to be consumed by self-pity and inactivity.
Yes, there are many ways that we can benefit from looking back at Peter
and learning from His experiences.
The Apostle John was another man of great faith and endurance.
At about 99 years of age, the Apostle John looked back some 65 years
and was able with the help of Holy Spirit to remember so much about Jesus' life and works
that He could write the Gospel of John.
He looked back not only to remember what He had learned from Jesus
but also because He wanted future generations to learn about Jesus.
But John also looked ahead with faith in Jehovah's promise
about Jesus as King of the coming kingdom, declaring in the conclusion
of the Book of Revelation, Amen.
Come, Lord Jesus.
Yes, we look back to learn from God's Word
and see the many ways in which it can benefit us.
At the same time, we look ahead to the future, to the real life in the new world
when we will be able to enjoy life in ways not possible today.
How good it is to know the truth, to serve our great God, Jehovah
and to be a part of the worldwide Brotherhood.
In addition to the Bible examples we've considered,
our Brotherhood is rich with modern-day examples of faith.
We have an archive interview with Brother Horst Henshel.
He and his family face bitter persecution during World War II under Nazi Germany.
After the war, he was imprisoned for his faith in the GDR, the former East Germany.
When at his lowest point, notice what renewed his strength to endure
and keep looking ahead.
My parents had a very strong faith in God and the Bible.
Of course, Jehovah's Witnesses were banned during the Second World War.
My mother was arrested and imprisoned.
My father could not reconcile military service with his conscience
and therefore he refused to do it.
Until today I can still see him sitting in front of the kitchen stove
and looking in the open flames.
That was the last time I saw him.
I had to go to school and he went to the district commando
and explained them that he cannot be a soldier because of his conscience.
Finally, he was sentenced to death and was executed.
His last brief came.
In the beginning of his last letter he wrote,
be happy when you get his letter because I have endured.
In two hours I will be executed.
And then he ends his letter with the words
of Rida Sin.
See you again.
My mother's faith and my father's integrity
and their belief in the resurrection have had a deep impact in my life
and I am still very grateful for that.
Later as a young man of 19 years I also was arrested
in the former GDR for proclaiming the world of God.
I was sentenced to 12 years in prison
but I had only to serve six years.
What I learned is that Jehovah really helps at the right time.
The time of interrogation was difficult.
I was put in a solitary confinement cell in a cell with only very little light.
I did not have any strength anymore.
In the cell there was not much, only a plank bed for sleeping
and on the wall a board with house rules
that I didn't take notice of.
I looked at it and I turned it around
and what did I read on the bank?
The lyrics of a song of our songbook
it said,
fear them not, oh my beloved,
the men's posting threats may fly.
Immediately I regained my strength.
I felt like having been at the convention
because I knew other brothers had also been here
that had endured and stayed faithful.
Of course I will never want to forget this incident.
It showed me very clearly
that Jehovah really gives us the power beyond what is normal.
It's like the Bible says,
the Word of God exerts power.
Or as it says in Proverbs,
the name of Jehovah is a strong tower.
Intuit the righteous one runs and receives protection.
Brother Henshel's experience reminds us
that spiritual food in whatever form,
such as a theocratic song,
can strengthen us to keep enduring.
Spiritual food is a gift from God
and so is our ability to read it in printed form
or to enjoy audio and video publications.
For the deaf, however,
that same spiritual food is often out of reach.
To help us understand the challenges
that most deaf people face,
we've invited Brother Bobby Dunbar to join us.
He serves in translation services at World Headquarters
and has spent over 30 years serving in the Sign Language field.
Welcome, Bobby. We're happy to have you with us.
Thank you.
First question for you. It's a personal one.
What was your first language?
Both of my parents were deaf.
So I grew up using Sign Language at home.
You could say it was my first language
and English is a second language for me.
In the early days before there were Sign Language congregations,
how were the spiritual needs of the deaf cared for?
Our organization actually has a long history with deaf people.
As far back as 1915,
Brother John Gillespie, an anointed pilgrim brother,
was seeing signing songs for deaf people
at a convention in the United States.
And since then, for many, many years,
there's been interpreting at the meetings and assemblies.
And where brothers didn't know Sign Language at times,
they even wrote notes for the deaf brothers
to help them understand what was going on during the program.
We do indeed appreciate those early signers,
because I know they helped greatly
when there were no Sign Language congregations.
Absolutely.
But where was the first Sign Language congregation formed?
And how many Sign Language congregations are there worldwide,
including groups?
In 1976, Korea was the first branch
to establish a Sign Language congregation.
And now there are more than 4,000 congregations
in groups that conduct their meetings in Sign Language.
That's remarkable.
Would you please give us an idea
of what the organization has accomplished
down through the years in order to assist deaf people
to come to a knowledge of the truth?
Our website, which contains videos in Sign Language,
Bible-based videos, in more than 80 Sign Languages,
make Bible truths available to deaf people.
Many of these 80 Sign Languages
have the watchtower available every month.
Some of these Sign Languages actually have Bible books available.
And this has been a huge blessing to our deaf brothers and sisters.
In addition to this, the organization has provided an app
for mobile devices that make these videos very accessible
in American Sign Language.
And soon, this app will be made available
to all the other 80 Sign Languages,
so that they can carry around with them a whole video library
in a mobile phone or an tablet.
That's remarkable.
But now some may ask,
since most deaf people can see,
why do they need videos with Sign Language?
Why can't they just read the publications?
While it's true that some deaf people read very well,
the vast majority of deaf people really struggle to understand
what they read and print it for.
To give you an idea of the challenge that a person who is born deaf,
the challenge that he faces,
and learning to read well,
just imagine I put you in a glass soundproof booth.
And I'm on the outside with a pencil and paper,
and I'm trying to teach you to read and write fluently
in Greek or Chinese.
How far are you going to get?
I would get nowhere.
You see, learning a language really depends much on hearing it.
Just think of how a child learns language.
He hears it first for many years,
then he begins speaking it,
and once he's fluent at speaking the language,
then he learns that these little black squiggles on the page
represent the sounds and the words that he already knows.
But for deaf people,
Sign Language used in our publications and at our meetings
allows them to learn and to flourish spiritually,
to study, to have a meaningful ministry,
to participate in giving talks at meetings and conventions,
and to become good teachers of others.
That's remarkable.
But can Sign Language really teach what is found in the Bible?
Can it convey the understanding of the scriptures?
For example, what's taught or what's spoken of in the book of Revelation?
Sign languages are actually very rich languages,
and they excel at telling stories about people
and conveying emotions.
Actually, the book of Revelation is very easy in Sign Language
because Revelation is so visual,
and so the Bible comes alive in Sign Language.
Would you like to see some examples?
Oh, yes.
For example, we have the woman who approached Jesus
and touched the fringe of his garment,
and then we see his reaction.
The blind man who was healed
and regained his sight.
The beast of Revelation throwing down the harlot
and having a rafter in your own eye.
I could even understand some of those video presentations.
Of course, since I already know about the accounts,
but it's true, they're very powerful.
Some in the congregations,
the hearing congregations may be wondering,
what can they do to assist in getting the good news
to deaf people everywhere?
If they meet a deaf person in the ministry or anywhere else,
they can always direct them to our website,
and there's a good possibility that we have a video there
in their Sign Language.
They can also direct the interest
to the local Sign Language congregation or group.
One final question, Bobby.
How do you personally feel about the progress
that you've seen in the Sign Language field worldwide?
I used to wonder how the good news was going to reach deaf people
in places like Russia, China, and India.
But one by one, Jehovah has removed obstacles.
And so, for example, today,
there are more than 3,500 Jehovah's Witnesses
who use Russian Sign Language.
And worldwide, there are more than 24,000 deaf Jehovah's Witnesses.
We see all of this as a fulfillment of Bible prophecy
and as an evidence of Jehovah's blessing.
Thank you very much, Bobby,
for giving us such insight into the world of the deaf
and also the way in which the good news is being carried to them.
Our team found the encouraging example
of Brother Jose Luis Ayala, who lives in Mexico City.
He was born deaf and then became completely blind by the age of 29.
When he found the truth and wanted to study the Bible,
our brothers lovingly made the effort to help him overcome these obstacles.
I was devastated.
Being completely deaf and now blind was depressing.
Life became difficult.
I had to use a cane.
I couldn't get around like I used to.
I became afraid of walking on my own.
I was very sad.
Then I met the witnesses and they treated me well.
Their conduct was different from the people at my old job
who often mistreated me.
As I learned more and more about the Bible, my life changed.
The brothers took turns picking him up for the meetings
and then afterwards they taken back home.
Jose Luis really made lots of changes to clean up his conduct
and pleased Jehovah.
After several years, I approached the brothers about getting baptized.
They said, are you sure?
And I said, yes, I want to.
So after going over the questions, I got baptized.
The congregation has a loving arrangement
where they assign brothers to help me prepare for the meetings.
Because obviously I can't see the videos or study material
like the watchtower.
But there are brothers who come and explain the information to me
so I can put everything into braille.
That way I can later give comments or deliver an assignment at the meeting.
At the Kingdom Hall, sometimes I help with maintenance and with cleaning.
I even help out in the magazine department.
Some in the congregation invite me to go preaching with them.
Three years ago, some brothers took me to a soccer field to play.
The brothers were surprised at what I could do.
Afterwards, they gave me a lot of delicious food and drinks.
I ate and drank everything.
In 2011, I was appointed as an elder.
And for two years, I've been serving as a regular pioneer.
The body of elders has seen that Jose Luis is very good
at giving encouragement to other publishers in the congregation.
We've actually assigned him to give talks to the assemblies.
The audience really benefits from his way of presenting the information.
Second Corinthians 2.10 says,
For when I am weak, then I am powerful.
The Spanish-speaking congregations often request him to go and give talks,
even though they don't know sign language.
I use my notes in braille and give the talk in sign language,
while another brother interprets simultaneously using a microphone.
When I feel that 30 minutes have passed, I finish.
And instead of clapping, everybody applaud with their feet so I can feel it.
They've told me that some in the audience begin to cry.
It's not easy for me to deliver a talk, but when I realize this may encourage others,
the effort is worth it.
We all struggle with certain experiences and difficulties in life.
However, when you talk with Jose Luis and see the things he does,
and how he loves Jehovah, how he serves him with a complete heart,
his living example shows us there is no obstacle to great.
I think of what I was able to do before,
how I could enjoy seeing beautiful gardens before I became blind.
I patiently wait for the future that I have learned about.
I strive to be worthy to see with my own eyes what we hope for so much.
Even if I die, I know Jehovah can resurrect me.
In the future, when I can see again,
I can imagine the tears when I see and hear all the brothers and sisters
who have been my friends, and to be able to greet them in person,
how nice it will be to give them a hug.
It will make me so happy and thankful for the blessing of Jehovah.
This is my hope.
Brother Ayala is grateful for the assistance from his congregation to grow spiritually.
And we saw how he now enjoys giving spiritual gifts to others
as he personally looks ahead to God's promises for the deaf and blind.
Our faith in God's promises can be put to the test when we face a severe trial.
In this dramatization, a Christian family is devastated by natural disaster,
but finds a way to once again rejoice in the hope.
What is there to look forward to?
I've been thinking about this for a while now.
Recently, a huge typhoon hit our area and inflicted severe damage.
Now, three generations of our family are temporarily living together in a small apartment.
Somehow, our family is keeping up our spiritual routine.
But to be honest, our hearts aren't really in it.
We lost some close friends, our house, and the car.
From that day on, it's like we can't think or feel anything.
We are just going through the motions.
A brother from the disaster relief committee visited us.
He really listened to how he felt and gave us comfort from the Bible.
That evening, my son and I discussed how we can help our family.
We found a scripture at Jeremiah, chapter 29, verse 11, which says,
For I will know the thoughts that I'm thinking toward you, declares Jehovah.
Thoughts of peace and not of calamity.
To give you a future and a hope.
Jehovah is looking at our future and our hope.
Not just what we are facing now.
We thought about Moses' example.
Moses looked intently toward the payment of the reward.
We finally saw what we should do.
The next day, we all tried to envision the future paradise.
We all felt a ray of hope into our hearts.
What is there to look forward to?
I've been thinking about it for a while now.
When we dwell on the disaster, what we lost.
And just what we see before our eyes.
Then we can so easily be discouraged and lose joy.
But when we look toward the reward that Jehovah will give us.
And the future that Jehovah has in store for us.
Even in such hard times.
We can rejoice in the hope.
I know the answer.
Yes, what I look forward to is our wonderful future.
Dwelling on the loss was discouraging.
Whereas visualizing their future hope restored the family's joy.
All of us can benefit from keeping our hope before us.
Family heads can imitate the example we've seen.
And use family worship time to creatively imagine the future paradise.
To prepare for life in the new world.
Many have had the struggle to leave behind the desires and ways of this old world.
Brother Hercules Pinto relates how he traded his desire for physical strength.
For something far superior.
I was born to be strong.
I was raised that way.
My father was a bodybuilder and a fighter.
That's why he named me Hercules.
I was raised in a seaside town in Rio de Janeiro, where my father had a gym.
From early on, our life was not easy.
My father was very aggressive.
I felt frustrated and angry about the things that I saw happening at home.
The only way I found to let out these feelings was with my fists, my fighting.
I had a lot of anger inside of me.
I felt worthless.
I loved music.
Especially heavy metal.
So I joined many different bands.
The fans' admiration felt really good.
When the show ended, however, I would feel empty.
I kept asking myself, is this all there is to life?
Is there a purpose in life?
I believed in a creator, but I didn't trust any religions.
One day, I was speaking to a guitarist.
He was studying what Jehovah's Witnesses and a subject came up about the soul.
He began to show me in the Bible what the soul really is.
What he showed me really impressed me because it was irrefutable.
I began to ask him lots of questions.
In time, I myself started studying the Bible.
A little while later, an opportunity arose for us to assign a contract.
Something that would affect my whole life.
But I wouldn't be able to serve Jehovah while in an environment that was immoral, dirty.
It was then that I decided to leave the band.
But I needed to make big changes.
Leaving the band was just one of them.
I still had a fight against immorality, my strong personality, my aggressive nature.
The Colossians 310 assured me that it was possible to put on a new personality.
With the help and support of my study conductor, I qualified to be baptized in 1989.
And do not regret the decision I chose.
Then, in 1992, I met a zealous and dedicated pioneer who became my wife.
His love for Jehovah has helped him become a calmer, more loving and more caring person.
I joined Adilza and began serving as a pioneer.
In 1998, we were assigned to circuit work.
And from then on, we began to visit congregations around the country.
One of the things we enjoyed in this work is being among the brothers.
I still love music, but I discover that I wouldn't have any purpose in life.
If I weren't serving Jehovah wholeheartedly, I discover that true strength isn't physical.
And that power doesn't come from fame or from being successful.
True strength and power comes from serving Jehovah.
Brother Pinto learned that true strength to change one's life comes from Jehovah.
If a Bible student you're assisting is working to put on the new personality,
watch Brother Pinto's story together and pray with your Bible student for the power beyond what is normal.
Brother Pinto's spiritual interest started with his belief that there is a creator.
Others too have found reason to believe in a creator before ever studying the Bible.
In a new video series, we'll hear from former evolutionists who began to see evidence of a creator
and were moved to learn more about him.
My name is Yeroslav Dovenich.
I received my degree from the Biology Department of the Ujgorod State University and specialized in Zoology.
I love nature very much and want to protect it.
The evolutionary theory, in my opinion, quite reasonably argued that there is no creator,
that everything was shaped by a series of random changes and combinations.
I was unable to prove this, but I believed it.
And that is why I was an evolutionist.
I was a staunch evolutionist.
While working in the Carpathian biosphere reserve and studying how ecological systems function,
I studied nature through the lens of the evolution theory.
When I studied nature through this lens, I began to notice things that contradicted the theory of evolution.
I found things that couldn't have been formed by natural selection.
As I started to wonder about this, whether there is a creator,
I began to discover more facts contradicting the theory of evolution.
Can anyone say that some computer programs appeared simply by chance?
In contrast, evolutionists would like us to believe that DNA was formed by evolution to illustrate.
Say you take some letter blocks, pour them onto the table,
and the encyclopedia Britannica is formed.
There is an even smaller probability that DNA originated by evolution.
When I started to seriously consider the possibility that the world might have been created,
I began to meditate about the following.
I knew that religion explains that the world was created by God,
so I decided to examine different religious teachings, including what the Bible says,
about how God created the world.
The Bible is very old, thousands of years old,
and yet its contents are accurate and authentic to this day.
And the Bible contains many prophecies.
These are the foretelling of events.
They were to occur in the distant future, sometimes many centuries in the future.
History confirms that they have been fulfilled exactly as the Bible foretold.
So these predictions must have been made by someone whose abilities are far greater than man's.
This proves that the author of the Bible is not man,
but someone who is far wiser and has abilities which man lacks.
My name is Raj Kalaria.
I was brought up as a nominal Hindu.
My parents were Hindus.
I went along with them to respect them,
but I didn't really understand completely what Hindu religion was about.
I studied medical sciences.
I have degrees in neurosciences and pathology.
We were taught about evolution of life,
and this was just part of the curriculum.
At the time, there were no other options as it were.
God did not come in the picture at all,
or God creating the heavens and the earth as it were.
Never came into the picture.
The brain is an extremely complex organ,
and brain is what we are, what I am, what you are.
No brain, no life.
It's as simple as that.
We started looking at the nerve cells themselves in terms of their volume and the number,
and it's phenomenal that in that small area of the brain,
there are some 1.4 billion neurons.
So the number of connections that make us synapses they make is phenomenal.
Absolutely phenomenal.
And so when you think about the complexity of all that,
how is it possible that that is just by random chance?
It has to be guided.
Then when I was introduced to the Bible,
one of the most beautiful things that struck me at the time
was that there was one God coming from a Hindu background,
the millions of Gods and the Trinity,
which really all was mysterious and full of mythology as well.
This idea of just one God, that really appealed to me.
The Bible also gives us a piece of mind.
It gives us a purpose in life.
Did you notice that both men studied the complexity of living things
from a different perspective,
but found similar evidence for an intelligent designer?
In the same way, our faith in Jehovah grows when we take time
to observe his marvelous creation.
Other things we observe can also build our faith.
When young ones see brothers and sisters enjoying their sacred service,
they often express their faith and talk about future spiritual goals.
We went along with several groups of children to find out
why they visited Bethel and what that visit taught them
about the organization, and Jehovah.
It took me three hours and forty-eight minutes.
It took us two and a half to three hours to get here.
I would rather go to Bethel than sit down and watch TV on my sofa.
I've got to go to Bethel just like Caleb and Sophia.
Once they go after that.
Because we haven't been here for a long time,
it's a great experience, and it's nice to see what they're doing here.
You can find people who serve Jehovah and they're happy,
and you can feel their concern for other people.
I was off school, we got to go to Bethel,
and we really glad that we got to go.
I like the translation department,
because that is where our publications and videos
are translated into different languages.
I saw the mini truck drivers at Bethel,
and then we got to see how they make the books and my books.
I learned that the paper in those barrels
they actually stretch from here to France.
I saw it when the paper was going down the machine,
that was the paper.
A little cart came onto the wheel,
and then the thing pulled the paper down,
and then the paper rolled inside,
and then it went, and then the cart had the paper inside,
and it rolled away.
If we go to other places, they are dirty,
but here it isn't, because this is the Jehovah's house.
I really like the laundry.
I saw these really big machines that keep on twirling,
then clean clothes come out.
Then they put more clothes into another machine.
It twirls and twirls and it dries.
I also like the iron.
You just put the clothes there,
and there it's a ready dry.
On our tour, we made the news for friends.
It hasn't had an amazing tour guide.
He was good because he taught us more about Jehovah.
I think that Bethel is really good,
and it helps the people so much in the Jehovah.
To other kids who haven't toured Bethel yet,
they should try to come and visit,
because they won't only enjoy the experience,
they also learn many things about Jehovah's organization.
I would tell kids that it didn't want to come to Bethel,
that they're mixing out on something that is so great
and loving from Jehovah.
It showed me that Jehovah is a loving and caring God.
Over for Bethel.
If your circumstances allow,
we're sure your family will benefit spiritually
from visiting Bethel.
It warms our hearts during these visits
to see children who love Jehovah
and show an appreciation for spiritual things
at such a young age.
Jehovah's people worldwide appreciate spiritual things.
That's why we're eager to attend the 2016 convention
with the theme Remain Loyal to Jehovah.
The governing body wants you to see the exciting previews
of the two video dramas that will enjoy at the convention.
The first is a modern-day depiction
that draws from the life experiences of Jehovah.
So, Dad, how many stars are there?
You're lifting in the forehead and the stone sank
at the his forehead.
It's okay with this one.
Nice, perfect.
It looks like we have to let some people go
and your name is on the list.
It's just a new already thing.
You just don't got it.
I've been praying and looking for a job
that will fit my schedule and nothing's happening.
Nine a.m. Friday.
What was that about?
The doctor's office wants me to come in Friday.
The first line I think is best to treat this
as aggressively as possible.
My recommendation is surgery.
Everything happens for a reason.
Prayer?
There's nobody listening.
What's your future?
You don't have any money.
You're drowning in debt.
You don't even have a job.
Everything I've done.
I've done for my family's spirituality.
Spirituality bill.
That's why you don't-
Spirituality.
Where's the teen?
Where's the one flesh?
I can't provide for my family.
At all.
I wake up sick every morning, useless,
wanting to die.
And you will wipe out every tear from their eyes.
And death will be no more.
Neither morning nor outcry.
Nor pain me anymore.
The former things have passed away.
What are we two talking about?
Hope.
Imagine the valuable lessons will gain
when we see the full video.
The second drama, prepared for the convention,
follows the biblical account of King Hezekiah
and how he courageously put his trust in Jehovah.
Whiskeyed.
I disguised myself as one of the Assyrian soldiers.
They finally broke through the wall.
And they singled out the leading man of the city
and they skinned them alive.
The Assyrians will come for us.
It's wise to take practical measures.
If we paid the tribute, we wouldn't need a surrender
and we wouldn't need to fight.
What have you done?
Our children will die!
We need not fear the King of Assyrian
all the multitude that are with him.
For there are more with us than there are with him.
With him is the arm of flesh.
But with us is our God Jehovah to help us
and to fight our battles.
Trust in Jehovah, Hezekiah.
He never disappoints those who are loyal to him.
We have good things just ahead of us
at this year's convention.
We'll want to make plans to attend all three days
to take in the spiritual food
and enjoy the association with our brothers.
The faithful and discreet slave
lovingly keeps providing what we need
to keep pace with Jehovah's advancing organization.
And so this month's music video
warmly encourages us to keep the pace.
Ten of this world is changing.
I can't live in the past.
Please help me to keep running
because we're moving fast.
When we face opposition
and all the doors are closed
let's follow new direction there
and find a well-disposed.
Let's keep the pace.
You can take my hand, let's win the race.
Don't let go to the end, get what it takes
and all you need is to keep the pace.
I have such good intentions
at the start of each new day.
But something always happens
and there is a challenge
facing out of control
gives to help us manage
to keep us on the road.
Let's keep the pace.
You can take my hand, let's win the race.
Don't let go to the end, get what it takes
and all you need for to see.
Blessings flow.
We go the extra mile.
Adjust to change.
A smile is clear.
You see paradise with no more tears.
I'm so glad that I try to keep the pace.
You can take my hand, let's win the race.
Don't let go to the end, get what it takes
and all you need to see.
You can take my hand, let's win the race.
Don't let go to the end, get what it takes
and all you need for to see.
Young or old, we're assured at Hebrews 6-10
that God is not unrighteous
so as to forget our work
assist fellow believers
and keep looking ahead with faith.
We are assured of Jehovah's rich blessing.
You may have noticed that the original soundtracks
of our music videos have been added
to the audio category of JW Broadcasting.
You can also download them to the JW Library app.
Once the files have been downloaded to your device,
you'll have two additional options for playing your songs.
You can press the play all button
or play tracks randomly by pressing the shuffle button.
Downloading the files to the JW Library app
lets you play them again and again
at no additional download or streaming costs to the organization.
You can enjoy, keep the pace
and our other songs as often as you like.
We conclude with an encouraging visit to Poland
where our brothers are also keeping the pace.
More than 120,000 publishers
are busy taking the good news to over 38 million people.
They're preaching and growing cities
along mountain ranges
and through the beautiful countryside.
The first class of the school
for Kingdom of Angelizers
was held in Warsaw in March 2015.
There have been several classes since
with eager students graduating
and ready to work in the field.
Many older ones remember the 40-year ban
on our work in Poland
that ended with legal recognition in 1989.
Years later,
spiritual food is openly shared
in special metropolitan witnessing.
Our brothers and sisters diligently bear thorough witness.
They're happy to support Kingdom interests
to worship together
and to enjoy each other's association.
They send you their greetings.
We send our love and return
and pray for Jehovah's continued blessing on them.
Thank you for joining us.
From Brooklyn, New York,
this is JW Broadcasting.